---
layout: default
title: (Graph) Neural Networks Optimization
description: Description of talks on April 2nd, 2026
---


## Optimising (Graph) Neural Networks Using Exact Solvers


**Speaker**: [Neil Yorke-Smith](https://www.tudelft.nl/ewi/over-de-faculteit/afdelingen/software-technology/algorithmics/people/neil-yorke-smith) 

**Abstract**: 
Convolutional neural networks have been modelled as constraints in mixed
integer linear programming (MILP) mathematical optimisation models,
enabling surrogate-based optimisation in various domains and efficient
solution of machine learning certification problems.  However, previous
mathematical formulations of neural networks have been mostly limited to
multi-layer perceptrons.  Graph neural networks (GNNs) can learn from
non-euclidean data structures such as molecular structures efficiently.
We propose a bilinear formulation for ReLU graph convolutional neural
networks and a MILP formulation for ReLU GraphSAGE models, both novel at
the time of their development.  These formulations enable solving
optimisation problems with trained GNNs embedded to global optimality.
We further propose a nonlinear formulation for transformer neural
networks.  The value of these mathematical formulations are demonstrated
in multiple chemical engineering scenarios.  This work is joint with
Sian Hallsworth, Tanuj Karia, Tom McDonald, Artur Schweidtmann and
Calvin Tsay.


**Bio:**
Neil Yorke-Smith directs the Socio-Technical Algorithmic Research (STAR)
Lab at TU Delft.  His research addresses a fundamental question of the
AI era: how can technology help people make decisions in complex
socio-technical situations?  Yorke-Smith is an Associate Professor in
the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Mathematics and Computer Science.
  He is a Fellow of the TRAIL Research School, a Senior Member of AAAI,
a Senior Member of ACM, and a member of CAIRNE and ELLIS.  In addition
to directing the STAR Lab, Yorke-Smith co-directs the ICAI AI &
Logistics Lab (AILogLab).  Website: starlab.ewi.tudelft.nl




[back](../index.md/#april-2nd-2026-graph-neural-networks-optimization)
